result:
id (link)
rel (1/0)
text 

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84024441/1897-03-04/ed-1/?sp=5&q=Boston+Dead+dead+explosion+flame+gas+Gas+Subway
1
Boston, March 4. An explosion lias just
occurred in the subway excavation at the
corner of Trcraont and Ooylston streets.
Three electric cars that were passing
at the time were wrecked and one ot
them was burned. Several bulldingsin the
vicinity were more or less damaged.
The explosion was caused by escaping
gas.
Among the buildings damaged are the
Hotel Pclliam, the Knickerbocker and
Head buildings and the Masonic Temple.
Window glass in buildings within 200
feet of the scene of the explosion were
shattered.
At least twelve persons were killed.
Four bodies have been removed to un
dertaking' rooms.
Forty-two persons arc at the Emergency
Hospital.
Among the dead are:
Rev. W. A. Slack, professor at Tufts Col
lege. G. I). Bigclow, conductor.
Unknown man and woman.
The injured include James Reardon, John
J. O'Conuor, Thomas F. Ford, Mrs. J. R.
Wilson, Nellie Jackson, Lucy Dolan, F.
W. Tceling, and Mrs. F. A. reck
There seems to be no doubt thatatleast
eight persons were immediately killed.
The explosion came Jutt as the streetcars
were almost in the ceutcr of the space at
the corner.
The first car was In the center when the
explosion came. The whole of the wood
work, which is used as a bridge over the
subway, was lifted into the air, carrying
the first car with it and taking along the
two horses of the second car. The other
Tehlcles were lifted straight into the air,
but came down on the tracks. Instantly
the air was filled with flying debris.
The firat electric car, the one in which
most or the killed were riding, no sooner
reached the track than It broke in hair,
and the whole portion Immediately burst
into flame. Then someone sounded a fire
alarm. This brought a large rescue force
to the scene, and almost immediately calls
were being sent out hurriedly for the am
bulances. It was an awful Eight that met the gaze
of those who were first on the scene. In
the center was the long blazing electric
car. .Close beride this were the bodies ot
the two horses killed instantly, and about
ten, twenty, thirty feet away from where
the woodwork of the car was blazing lay
the dead and wounded people. Those who
wore not injured in the cars on Boylston
6treet were Incapable ot action
at first, and people in the buildings and
stores surrounding did not know what had
occurred, but it did not take them long
to secure their senses, and almost imme
diately there was a rush to the assistance
ot the wounded.
It is stated that there was not a person
on the three cars who was not injured, and
all the wounds received were severe. Im
mediately stores and offices were con
verted into temporary hospitals until am
bulances could arrive. 1 1 was a gruesome
spectacle to see these bodies exposed on
the sidewalks.
Hose carriages were pressed into service
as ambulances, and immediately they were
started on their humane duty or getting the
maimed to the hospitals.
It Is supposed that-one of the dead women
at Jones' undertaking rooms Is Mrs. A. M.
Bates. She was out wlth a sister this
morning and has not returned. The sister
returned home slightly injurcd

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1897-09-19/ed-1/?sp=32&q=BOSTON+Boston+BOSTONS+SUBWAY+subway
1
UNDERGROUND TRAVEL.
T1IK BOSTON SUBWAY PARTLY COM?
PLETED AND IN OPERATION.
A BRI0I1TI.T UOIITED Tl NNW. AFKfU'.PlN?: RAPID
TRANSIT FOR BLECTRIO CARS CONORS
TIO? OV TUB BTREET9 RELIEVBD,
The subway for streetcars In Boston, a pari
of whli h has Ju il b >a op? n? -i for at rvlce. is an
em.???? of more than local Interest The ne
eesslty for some relief t? the i rowded thorough?
fares above it can besl be appre? lat? d, of course,
by H lonlans; but tl?.- Modem Aib.n.s is i?; no
means th.ily cltj In this countr) which is
beset with problems of the same character.
ThofO who :ii" familiar v.iih "!h<- lay of tiie
land" in Bosl? n remember thai Tremont-st. runs
In a ajenerall) north-and-aonth direction and
forms ihe istern boundary of th.- Common.
Ii i-; intersected by Rovlston-st., which consti?
tutes Ihe southern boundary of thai historic
parle On the Boylsl m and Tremonl st edges
of the Common there is a broad promenade.
known as the Mall. The main part of the sub?
ira. li. h Is w Id nough to a? commodate four
tracks, passes under ihe Tremonl st. Mall, and.
niter passing under Park-st, which lies along
the northern side if ine Common, extends mr
will extend, when completed) to Scollay ?Square,
thence eastward to Adams Square, ami finally
up northward again to Hayraarkel Square.
This terminus Is close to the great union rail?
way station .it the North End.
Ft en th.- oin, r of Tri mont and Boylston sts.
there are two extensions, wldn enough f>?r only
a double track. Boylston st. Mall for about '.k"> feet, and then
ascends an Incline through an op? n ul for ,'il*
feel The terminal station for this branch la
situated In th- Public Gardens. The other
branch reaches away to the southward, and. on
nearlng th<- Junction of Bhawmul ave. and Tn
mont-st., forks. A separate two-track incline
leads up into each of those streeta
Including th? Inclines, ihe subway has a total
length of about a mile and a half, und will con?
tain about five miles of track Al present the
branches from th.rn.-r of Boylston and Tre?
monl Bl.-. and th-- main line up to Park-Si. an
In operation. A great >l<-.il o? work has already
been done on the northern portion of the route,
arid it is h? i I thai everything all) be finished
within th> n \t eight months. Hi und wats
broken for the subway in April, 1805, twenty
Bine month- ago.
The depth of this underground passageway Is
1 I f. t. The Width IS L'i feel for I WO T.|. l(S, .11,d
18 feel f.-r f? ur. Al Int rvala of sis r- et, along the
side.-, si--. I posts are b< t up on at.1 foundatl >nB,
and from the tops of those on one side there
r? rn h a? n i to the top ..f o, i th? r
stul roof beams. Where there arc four tracks
there is a c? ntral lia.f posts in the turn I, In
addition to those along the sides, From one
ro i am t.? the n< sl th? re cxl nd an ai h of
ma t.ry. These su< Iv? ai hi f. mil I hi
roof, an covered with coni-rete; ind th?
mat? lal HI th? pace betWi'.-i
the Bides. A waterproof I
i In es iding from I .....a, wat< r that
other? leak n fi ml ill. Th? m i
?onry floor is d, like an Inv? rted ar. h,
an l al ng II ?rural line iher? r in i a dra n At
Int? r\ ala the train a pit, from
which, whem ver the wat? r rises to a
level, the contents arc withdrawn bj auti i il
ally con troll? I 1?. :r,,- pumps
V? ntllatlon Is ff? '.-l by hui i ?l irj ran
establish? d in masonrj it thi or four
pointa along the i ne. The air Is suck l out of
the subway, and forced upward thi ugh the
op nfnga to Ihe level of ihe ?trei-i, ll u dr< I of
Im and? m i ctrlc imi and scores of an
Hghta ai i advanl ig? i al ?ng Ihe in
terl? r. As clectrlelt) i>d for th?
propulsion of the i ara hi? h i il
th? r.- la i. smoke lo a? umulat? i n the -Mings,
and no foul gases to offend the fa i rv?i
Tin-re is no reason why th? pla h ..-1 n I r?
main lean, sweet and bright for years.
AI th? und? rground r irse, the
subway is broaden? I A high Air? fenc? runa
lengthwise In the middle, irallng the two
noi thboui -1 tr u from the tw?i soul hi un I.
The tra- lu of e.i., t, p.ur are Ivided i rial n
gineers call an "island platform." saj feel
wide, and 300 or IfSJ feel long. Ace? i.m tie
had to on? platform from the ??(her onlj b) pro
Ing down a low flight of ita ai i through a
narrow bul brightly Illuminated pas age undei
n- ath, oi i going up i the street and rosslng
iv? r.
The cara v. hi, h run Ihn ugh the tunnel ar- oi
("..i irj li lej cars, but, iik.- many which tra-.
i other rout? In t!:-- i ty, th? y are all con?
trolled by one ror|ioratliin, Ihe West Knd Street
Hallway Company, to which, by the way, the
subwaj la- lieen leased by th? Tran t Commis
i neri 'iii fact partially explains some of the
pri au ?i taken al the stations. Then one
buys a ii ki t In lure h >a riling i.u or Hing a,
rhan? e to do o, are) thi ndui lor on I h? car col
lecta Ihe Ll? kets, Kill fn m th? i tatlon i lat
Is effected Ihrouul lun les, wbi< b a.. >w
a person to pa In onlj ?in dh i ion.
in. id, easy stall rid d n n from Ih I reel
r? the und und statloi 'i i
more than thirty Btej In a (light Th ai
two flights for He northbound tracks, ind two
f ?r the Bouthl ?ui I The h ud of a li
i.; in loa d by a neat oni tory, gla
granite b ill lin Glazed white i?i i. i< and i I? lit)
?,f whit.- paint Impart to ihe station interlora
a fresh and the r> appearance. At present t?..-
BOSTON'S NEW SUBWAY INCLINE IN THE PUBLIC GARDEN.
?nly stations in use underground are at the cor
ner of Boylston and Tremont sts. ami at Park-st
A temporary loop at the latter point permits
the northbound cars to return without switch?
ing. When the subway is completed, however.
there uiii i.ther stations at Si o lay Square,
Adams Square and Hay market Square.
miy an engineer can begin to understand
th.- difficulties of an undertaking lik?- this
Count leas sewers, a ater-plpcs, gasplp? s and tele
phon? -Air.- conduits have been laid close to the
route, and Bom of ih.s,- have been bared dur?
ing the prigresa of the necessary excavation.
When ihelr position was at a higher level than
the r..of ,,f the future subway it was not neces?
sary to do ne re than lo protect them carefully
f.r the lime. Bui if the) were lower than the
roof, and higher than the Boor, the situation
was root, serious. Two great water mains, one
thirty Inches In diameter and the other forty
BOSTONS NEW SUBWAY FOUR-TRACK SUBWAY UNDER TRKMONT-ST.
Inches across, ?ere encountered at that very in
invenlent level, It became necessary to con
utru t siphons, bending down under the subway
and up agiln on the other Bide, in order to ad
ju-t these conflicts of Interest. Kor the happy
solution of all th.-:- difficulties great credit is
,'-j to th? t'ity Commission Intrusted with the
work, to their 'hlef ngli.r, and, in some meas?
ure, t. the engine, rs of the West End Company,
An Incidental l j: I mi orlant f. ature of tlie
plan of construction Is the avoidance of grade
i rossinirs. In the four-track passageway the
Iloylston-st. ears have the two inside tracks,
and the Tremont-st and Bhawmut-ave. ears use
the two outer ones in common. Accordingly,
at th" southeastern corner of the Common, the
westernmost track (southnound) is carried down
Under the two central ones, by a special one
track tunrnl which soon emerges With another
one-track tunnel carrying th>- up-track. At a
point still further south a similar plan Is pur
sued in th.- separating of the Bhawmut-ave. and
Tremont-st. cars
Tie- cipa. Ity of the subway is ninety cars
per mit,ute. Inasmui h as th" facilities thus af?
forded :ir.- Buppli mentary to th.me already af
forded on Tremont-st., and an- not a substitute
for the latter, a distinct increase In the number
of punes, as well as freedom from blockades,
bas been secured.
RJtlUYBRAVIVO POSTAI* CARDS.
i From The Boston Transcript.
An advertisement has appeared in some of the
daily papers In which a cosh payment has been
offered for uneancelled printed postal cards. It
seems that many business houses have occasion
j to have a large number of postal cards printed
to advertise some special line of goods or for
the use of some travelling man. For some rea?
son or other the conditions may change, so that
perhaps only half of the cards are use?), being
or m'.cd, Lbey can nut be used in any other way,,
j and the result is that in nine CSSSS out of ten
they are consigned to the waste basket, a? the
Government does not red. em uncancelled postal
cards an it does stamped envelopes.
A process has been discovered by which all of
the printed matter may be removed from the
card, leaving it in the same condition as when
bought at the poatofBcn. A charge of one-half
cent per card is- made for this work; or, in other
words, a man sends five hundred carda to be
"made over." The man who does the work
charges f?SO for his services, ami tin- u.?tomer
save? $1* ."?0, as the printed cards were of no uas
to him.

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn95079490/1897-10-23/ed-1/?sp=7&q=BOSTON+SUBWAY
1
THE BOSTON SUBWAY
SATISFACTORY SOLUTION OF THE
STREET CAR PROBLEM.
Contention of Trafllc In tli? Iluny Streets
of the Uub Relieved by Underground
Trolley Lines?Tunnels Tlmt Am Light,
Clean uud Attractive.
It is now possible to cross Tromont
street, Boston, at any point opposite tho
Common and at any time of day without
loss of life or limb. Tho new subway has
brought about tho change.
It 1 s an old tradition that tho fathers of
Boston, when thoy laid out tho city, let
the. streets follow the winding cow paths.
At any rate, the streets ius thoy exist today
urc very crooked and must of them aro
very narrow. This was all right in Revo?
lutionary times, but when the city grow
miles beyond tho Common und spread it?
self out to tho south and west; when busi?
ness centered itself along tbu lower ends
of Washington and Trentont streets, and
when dozens of street car tracks usurped
tho narrow roadways, then the Bostonlans
wished their ancestors bud not stuck so
closely to the cow paths.
Probably no other city on the continent,
was ever so badly allllctcd with a conges?
tion of trnllic as tho Hub haslieon for
many yea: Some of tho most important
street ear linen skirt tho south and east,
cornets ol the Common on Boylston mid
Tremont streets. When I he chango was
made hum hoc. epov.vr to trolley, matters
grew worse. Then tho poles and the tan?
gle of overhead wires made that historic.
breathing spot look liko a pieco of dingy,
green billiard cloth which had become fray?
ed and tuttered around the edges. So after
much wrangling in tho legislature and
courts it w;ls decided tu build the subway
and put the trolley cars underground.
A large portion of the work bus already
lieen accomplished and Boston is delight?
ed with the result. The first thing a Hus?
ton man asks a visitor from Now York,
Chicago or elsewhere is:
"Been through tho subway yet'/ Let's
see?you huven't one in your place, have
you?"
It is, in fact, a triumph of engineering
anil well worth a visit. Then! arc throe
open cut.s where tho trolley curs enter the
subway. One Is out on Tremont street
whore Shawmut avenue comes in. Hero
the tracks from each of those jmorough
fares dive into the tunnel. Another is In
the Public gardens, where the cars com?
ing down Boylston street take tho under?
ground tlip. The third is at tho northerly
end of the subway, just beyond-Hay mar?
ket square and in front of the new Union
terminal railroad station into which the
Fitchburg, Hoston und Maine, Eastern
und other roads run. Theru is u. loop hern
DOSTON'S NEW SUBWAY INCLINE IN THE Plin
LIC ns most of the t rolley lines inako it their
terminus, and, the subway being four
tracked, they disgorge their passengers
and take the back track up town.
Including the inclines or open onto, tho
subway has a total length of 1 miles and
will contain about live miles of track. At
present the branch down Boylston street
along the Common side and the main line
down Tremont to Park street are in oper?
ation. The Shawmut avenue branch and
tho northerly end of the main lino will be
finished within the next eight months.
Ground was broken for the subway in
April, 18115. The sum appropriated was
$7,ii(?0,000 and, wonderful to relate, tho
transit commissioners say that it is proba?
ble the cost will bo about $1,000,000 less
than that sum.
No groat difficulties have been encoun?
tered thus far in digging this big liplo In
the ground. Of course there were count?
less sewers, water pipes, gas pipes, electric
wire conduits and the like und some -III
inch water mains at an inconvenient level
proved rather hnrxl to handle, but n? un?
expected conditions arose to delay tho
work. The main trunk of the subway
runs under the wide walk or mall on tho
east side of the Common, anil when the
excavations were being made the bones of
hundreds of old Puritans were disturbed.
This raised a bowl of righteous Indigna?
tion,and the sncredness of the long forgot
burying ground was harped upon for
weeks. Hut the commissioners quieted
the reverent patriots by collecting nil tho
bones and roiuterrlng them in the holy
ground of the Common, with a nice monu?
ment to mark the spot.
The tleepest jioint of tho subway is on
Boylston street, where the south bound
t racks are laid lit) feet lielow the surface,
but the average depth is 14 feet. The tun?
nel itself is a giant bore with ribs of steel
mid casings! of cement, asphalt, concrete
and masonry. The roof is a series of
arches und the floor Is concave, with
drains at the bottom. As tho drnins are
below the level of the sewers, jilts have
been established at Intervals, and when
thev are filled with water automatic elec?
trical pumps are started, which empty
them Into tho sewers above.
Perhaps yon imagine that Boston's sub?
way is a tlark, damp, ill smelling place. It
is nothing of the sort. The entrances to
the stations aro handsome structures of
stone, with glass roofs. The only fault, to
be found with them is that thev remind
cs?blc. It makes food shortened
it i3 uahcaltb.ru! and filled with
icd by every medical r.::d culi- B
1
vegetable oil is nutritive, digest-
i
coil. Itisnu
:d with or fried
armful results.
md yoll^w tins,with
u((nM-/ililii( urc.il??
way. lladounlyby
1 PAN Y,
Montreal. ^?-?n?? _^ff* fa
you or an olo Urccinn tomi)?ft" least that
is what I thought of the first time I saw
one. Put then you go down an easy (light
of wide stone steps to n cheerful, brilliant?
ly lighted station. Everything Isdazzllug
ly white. The bricks lining the entrance
art? of glazed white porcelain, the mason?
ry arches are painted white and the iron
pillars and supports arc covered with im?
maculate white; enamel. Incandescent and
are lights Hash everywhere, and the vista
nhead through tho stretches of the subway
is far from u dingy one. It. Is about tho
cleanest und neatest holu In tho ground in
existence and no doubt will be kept so.
Already lifo tralllo on Tromont and Duyl
ston streets has been much decreased, ami
when tl;e subway is fully completed Bos?
ton foil: may get about their town with
comparative ease und safety.

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030272/1897-12-15/ed-1/?sp=3&q=BOSTON+Boston+SUBWAY+subway
1
'BOSTON'S UNUSED SUBWAY.
ft) H' VMDBnOltOVSD TBAXBITA TAILURE
j jjv oxvU x. rjtA otice.
Ij aYeople Reniie ta L'se It. Jot as Thfir Wonld
.1' the Hot la tbo Cronna Transit rropwed
J'v fbr Wew .rk Only Keren Per Cent, ef the
M Total Tronic Credited ta the flatmar The
j rreniable rnney TraDI o Lost to It Entirely
Jf Vat tba Condlllem Are nl Farorablr
BbS. Beaten Want, an Klevatrd nallraad Hon,
'sflf "H Before any farther attempt la mado to com'
i V Bait tbli eltr to the building of the proposed
jH underground system of rapid tranalt it would
H be well for every ono Interested to learn somo-
ll thing of the experience which Boston Is now
I lusTlng with Its subway. Boston's subway Is
li'H New York's proposed underground railroad In
L S miniature, excopt that It was constructed for
I H the use of the trolley car lines Instead of being
I V equipped with cars, motors, and power of Its
I H own, and mnnlnir two sets of trains one express
tf( I and one local.
The Boston subway short. That part now
jkVM tense Is less than ft mile In length, and the
KS farts which are under construction or proposed
R M Would add only about another mile to the tun
Hk wr Bet, There lr, perhaps, no finer specimen of
Jl&B passenger tunnel work any whero In the world,
aBfYS n ls doubtful -f anymore perfect tunnel
HtjH could Deconstructed.
B9p The tunnel runs under Tremont street, and
HHk Its extensions are to go under Cornhlll, Han
JJ. oxer street, and Washington streot, passing
i right through the denso business and shopping
districts, and thus securing every advantage
I that a road might have If It ran through Broad-
jf Tray, Fourteenth street and Twenty-third street,
i and part of Sixth avenue. And yet. In the face
j ef all these advantages, three months' experi
ence has shown that the Boston subway is not
popular, that people will not go Into It ex-
cept when they have to, and that the subway Is
lv a failure, save so far as It was a necosslty to re-
i'i Have the congestion of traffic on the street.
V XEED OF TUB BUDWAT.
A Bostonlans are proud of the subway. They
ri take strangers to see It, just as they take them
h to see Bunker IIIll Monument; make them ride
vM the length of It back and forth, and call alien
s' I tlon to all its fine foatures and then they keep
I away from it themsolves. Just as thoydofrom
if the monument. That this result ls of tntorest
I V to New Yorkers there can be no doubt. Tho
building of tbo subway growoutof a publloneed
Tfhloh was as absolute and pressing as the need
v ef this city for some addition to Its trafllo
in. facilities.
Hien, about ten years ago. the West End
oet Railway Company began to transform tho
horso car lines of Boston Into electric trot
lines the narrow streets In tho heart of
iton were already choked with tho dally rush
vehicles. Boston has to-day tho most ex
stve and comprehensive electrlo car system
the world. The added cars which wero re
red for tho now service fairly filled
i streets of the little central city
ere they were all concentrated. These
lines eorvo a suburban population of
trly a million persons, and it is possible to
;e a car for any part of the territory covered
.hoot going more thai a quarter of a mllo In
i city. Under a special act of the Lcglsla
e the Boston Transit Commission was ap
nted to devise a suitable means to relieve the
Station.
THE OrERATIVB COWTnAOT.
fader this commission tho subway wns
nned and is being built. Tho city of Boston
s for it and leases it to tho West End Street
llway Company for twenty years at an an
il rental which is not to be less than 4Ts per
it. upon the net cost of the tunnel, or more
,n .Ts per cent, upon tho sum of $7,000,000,
he tunnol should cost so much, and tho com
ly agrees to pay. in llou of interest, a toll of
nts for each car that passes through the
way. In caso the aggregate of tolls should
:eed the interest charges. The railroad com
ly cares for it, lights it, ventilates it, ana
ips It free from wator. i
fork was bosun on the subway on March 28,
13, and on Sept. 1 of this rear the first scc
o was put Into use. A second socllon was put
o use on Sept. 30. The main part of tbo sub
y now in use lies usdor Tremont street, bo
sen Park street and Boylst:n street. This
lion 'Is 1,700 feet long and contains four
cks. At both ends aro stations, built
nmodlously under ground and approached
m the surface by wide, easy stair
ye. wulch are protected by small or
mental stone buildings. At the BoyI
in street station the tunnel divides into
o two-tracked sections. Ono of these con
ues under Tremont street for about 1,200
it, whon its comes to tho surfaco and empties
cars upon the tracks in Tremont street and
awmut avenue, which hero diverge. The
ler branch turns sharply to the wostward,
asunder the edge of tho famous Common, to
Public Oarden beyond Ohnrles street, where
comes to tho surfaco, 1,200 foet from the
ylston streot station, and its cars goon tholr
y down Boylston street,
man standahd or coxsTitucnos.
The tunnel Is kept almost as light as day
im end to end. At the stations It ls lined on
sides with enamelled white brick. Through
t its length and on tho codings at tho
itlons It Is pnlnted white. At tlio su
ns and through the tunnol electric
hts aro hung In abundance, and to make
re that these shall not all fall at any ono tlnio
5y are divided nnd fed by two scparato clr
Its of wire, resides these lights, fixed In the
itnel, are the lights In tho passing cars, which
kept lit In making the tunnel passage. As
oorthreocarsaro passing In each direction
ery minute almost all the tliuo, their lights
me would keep it fairly well illuminated.
People doclare that they found the tunnel ro
ishlngly cool during the warm woather In Sep
nber Just after it was oponed, and In cold
lather they find It warm. No winds penetrato
and the moraont a porson gets to tho stairs at
itatlon he Is out of rench of storms. Only ono
jrce of discomfort has yet developed In tho
e of the tunnel, and that. It U belloved,
11 be remedied. This was, for the tlmo
lasted, a very groat trouble. It occurred
it month, when there had been a sudden
ange of 25 or 30 degrees in temperature,
oweathorhad been cold for thrco or four
ys, and the ground and tho Inside of tho tun
Ibadgotchillod until It was pretty nenrly as
Id under ground as on the surface. Thcncume
isoln tlio general teniperaturo of 23 or 30
grees. Tbo warm air. drawn Into tho tunnol
the ventllnting fans, struck against the
lllod roof and sides, and Immediately every
log began to weep. The cold roof and sides of
e tunnel condensed tho moisture In the
irraer air, and In a short tlmo the
jole Interior glistened with molsturu.
the stations tho condition was worst nnd pro
ced much discomfort. Here the air entered,
dof course gavo tin the greater part of its
ilsture. Most of tho moisture collected on tho
ling nnd dripped dnujion thn waiting passen
rs. People who had loft pleasant neathar
stairs found themselves exposed to trick
m streams below. It wns so bad that tbo
llroad company sot men to work scrnp
K down the roofs and Bides with riihbcr
urezers to gut rid of tho moisture. Even
this troiiblo cannot bo cured, tbo mil
sd officials do not believe that It would prove
serious consequence, bcciuso thero aro not
aro than thrco or four duj s In a year when
angrs of tetnpernturo uro wldo enough to
oduco tho drip.
REFL'SALOr THE run MO TO I'BK IT.
rho portion of (ho Bubnnyi use nt tlio pros
tllmo Is open fortrnvel from OoYlocl; A. M.
12 midnight cturlni; cwli day of tlio Muck.
lorenro at present 1,302 trips per duy being
n through ttio subway.
Vet hero Is the Bignilleaut fact; n study of tint
lly travel In tho Hiibnn-.. hour by hour and
y by day for months, Khiincd conclusive!)-, In
o judgment or tho,o who arc mont closely cou
nted, that the sub.va) U nut piipulnr.nm! that
Vf porsons tuo It, except w hen thev hnotn.
'esldcnt Littlo declares that this is aiiuuli
oro serious mutter than It would upniar to tliu
Initiated,
j THE KAKOV TIIAKKIO AVOIIIH IT,
B "In tho rush hours," he said, recently, In ills
jBA cussing tho matter, "I hit people in list tnke
HI every means of coiio)nnco that I here is at
t I hand. In these hours they Dock Into tlio sub-
Fii way as freely us they do In tliu ears i mining on
K, the surface, and during these hours nn carry
eH'-l about as many In the subway as It U possible
tJi for us to handle Iheront tboprnsotit time,"
Mf Then Mr. Little made a ntntument of which
iKmt. every street railway must reioi;nUo the truth,
lyK'l!, and which should bo inrrfiilly lonn.dered by
I M I.', every capitalist who maybe Invited to becomo
H I interested in building and operating the pio-
IbH posed rapid transit line In this city, provided tho
scheme ever gets so far as inviting contracts,
Thlsrushbourtraftlc,"Mr.Llttlocontlnued,
HkLSF "Is, however, not the business which wo mako
mv' tar money out of. If we had nothing but this
ntmi y other strlotly business traffic, it would
m
UK
b?id.1l!!,eH!.tA?i1B,lko Win business. Boring
nil tho middle part of earn day wo should bo
iu'inlf.,lSttsri!w "na (rotting nothing for
doing It. The fancy trnfUo 1s what wo want
and rely upon tho poople who ride bocauso Itls
V..VH nt to o, not bocauso they have to.
M? nTa. lhe People, our statistics show, who
will not go Into tho.subway. Wo know Just
how mnny persona tako tho cars In thn subwar.
becnuso wo sell tickets there beforo the peoplo
go upon tho station platforms, and these tickets
nro i-pllectcrl In tliocnrs. The sales of subway
car tlckcta show that thn tunnol gets a fixed
portion of the general trafllo, but docs not get Us
share of tho fluctuations,
Dlfll.tKK OF TIIF. 8UIIWAY IK ntiUItKS.
Wo carry nearly 200,000.000 pass-liners
every yoar. In September wo tarried 18.310,
(MX) passengers. Tho loop to tho Public Garden
from tho Park streot station was tho only ono
inon through tho subway during that month.
Tho atibwny trrtvel then wan 0.0 per cent, of
our wholo travel. In November, with tho Tre
mont streot and Shnwmul avenue toop open,
theMilnvnytraUIo reached 7.1 per cent, of tho
vtliolo,
"Sw His ft curious fact that although our
total number of passengers was Increased 111
October by 238,000 over the September figures,
tho number carried In tho subway was Increased
by only 7.000. Thfct great general tncronse was
nlmo-it entirely marto up of tho sort of fancy
riding 1 spoko of. Theio aro the peoplo who
Jump on n car nnd rldo downtown, ostensibly
to buy a spool of thrond or a skein of silk or
ynrn. hut really bocauso tho car Is handy and
the rldo pleasant. Theso pooplo won't go Into
the subway. If for no othor reason than becnuso
thoy won't walk down tho stairs.
"Tho steady trafllo which the tables show wo
can count upon ls shown In this table of a day's
sales of tickets on Oct. 1,"
Mr. Llttlo produced this tablet
rABSENOEns CARRIED IN BCBWAY OCT. 1, 1B07.
lloun. four.
a. M. r.
Oto 7. ill 7 4 to B S,0(IB
7 to t !A oto fl 3,408
8 to 0 S14 A to 7 l.nil
UtolO otlU 7 to S OIH
10 to 11 870 Hto V 096
11 to II! l.OUfi Oto'.O DID
r, M. lOtoll 44",
ito i l.nnintou: 247
1 to S I.K25
Oto 3 1,090 Total IS.SU7
ato 4 l.Kocl
AVOIDED EVEN MOKE IN STORMY WEATIIER.
One thing to be seen from theso Ilguros," Mr.
Llttlo added, Is that tho sulmny, although It
runs pistn number of the principal theatres,
does not get any appreciable quantiij- of that
strictly fancy riding, tho people going homo
from tbo theatres, any more than It gets the
sboppors.
On rainy days ono would suppose that tho
subway would get n bigger proportion of trafllo
than in flno weather; but this ls not true. I
mot Mr. Dalton. ono of tho Transit Commission,
the other day when It wns mining, at tho en
trance to tho Park street station.
'"Isn't this chnrnilngl' he exclaimed as he
got In out of the storm.
"I admitted th-it It was; but when I camoto
look over tha tables of daily receipts and com
pare thom with the total tralllo I found that
although tho general trafllo had fallen off less
than 0 per cent, because of tbo rainy dny, tho
subway traffic had lost 30 per cent. This Is the
rooro significant from tho fact that one
half the former number of cars nro now oft tho
streets above."
A reference to tho dally tablos showed how
tho travel In the subway fell off In unpleasant
weather. On Nor. 2, when tho usual dally
Irrffllc was 22,000 or 23,000 persons, only
14.000 went through tho subway. On Nov. 2a
tho number roll to 13,000, while tho next dny It
roso to 24,000. On Sundays, when tho tratllc
on nil parts of tho system ls fancy riding prin
cipally, tho number of passongers who go
through tbo subway falls as low as 0,000.
FACT8 FOR NEW YORK TO 1-0NDER,
These aro tho facta. If It wcro possible to
build tbo long tunnel proposed for this city nnd
mal.o all parts of It ns perfect ns tho Boston
subway, which is at least doubtful, what would
be thn effect of an oqual Indisposition of Now
Yorkers to using it upon tho chances of Its pay
ing I Tho proposed road would have enough to
contend with through tho location of its main
linos out of tho way of tho short-ride local
business, out of which alone profit ls to
be made; but If the fancy traffic avoided It, ns
It avoids the lloston subway, tho result would
bo ruinous, Tho contractors would find them
selves with no ono to carry except tho people
who wanted to ride to Harlem and far above
or to Klngsbrldge, all for fire cents, and. what
ever forfeit they had to make, they would soon
abandon tho lino for thn city to operate at a loss.
CACHES OF rUPLIC PREJUDICE.
Why the peoplo avoid tho subway Is a ques
tion much discussed. Perhaps as good nn ex
planation ns anr Is to bo found in a conversa
tion which took place between Tun Sun re
porter who gathered these fncts nnd the pretty
&lrl who Owns the news stnnd at one of Boston's
est hotels.
"Ilavo you beon through the subway yet I"
ho asked enthusiastically.
"Yes," the reporter nnswored.
"I have just been through It, Isn't It grand!"
she exclaimed.
"l)o you go through it of ten I" asked tho re
porter curiously.
"Ob, no!" Bho answered. "I think It's beau
tiful, so light, and dry, and comfort bio: but I
always take a surfaco car. I think I hate to
walk up the stairs, although I am not lazy. I
walk clear out to ltoxbury and back almost
ever' day, and have lost slxteon pounds by
doing so, but, somehow, I don't llko to go up and
down stairs In tho subway."
It ls probably something more than this thnt
deters people from going underground even In a
tunnel bo well lighted. It is well known thnt
the underground roads In London do not pay,
nnd this ls duo largely to tho lack of tho fnncy
trafflc, such as overflows surface lines and ele
vated roads In New York. Ask a Londoner If
he uses tho underground roads in his own city
much, and IiIb answer Is almost suro to bo:
"Oh, yes, but only when lhavo to."
NOW BOSTON WANTS AN ELEVATED ROAD.
That Boston has awakened to the fact that
subways arc not n good thing whero they can be
avoided. Is clear from the character of tho very
latest move now on foot there. This ls to build
elevated railroads from tho ends of the subway,
nnd thus, in thoopen air, enrry tho cars out be
yond the thickly built-UD sections to Rnx
bury, Cambridge, Cbarlestown, and be
jond. This plan ls to be carried out ns
soon as tho Stato Railroad Commission agrees
to a lease of the West End road's lines to the
new elevated railroad company.

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82016413/1901-07-24/ed-1/?sp=6&q=Boston+subway
1
Riding Astride Makes Little
Headway Among Ladies
There Is a rumor that the bean-cat-,
Ing, blue-blooded Boston dames have
mounted a new bobby. They rldo
astride. Not the bobby, but the horse.
They think this Is a good time to be
gin, says the New York Sun. Since
the Boston subway uus completed, a
large part of the population spends Its
time underground, riding back and
forth through the tunnel and exclaim
ing: "Wo did It!
This has Increased the above-ground
Inhabitants to so small a number that
It's a good time to oercomo public
opinion, because there's so little of It
to overcome. Consequently thd Boston
women refeired to t:nn seized the
chance to establish the new fad In rid
ing. They Know that by the tlmo the
people get tired ut looking nt their hole
In the ground, bloomers will nave be
come a pait of thfl Boston eieed of B's.
Its growing. Already It Includes Bos
ton bens, Boston bays, Boston blue
blood and Boston has bleus,
Within a few wck& the same rumor
has broken out nearer home. Newspa
per paragraphs have declared that New
York women, too, are going to aban
don the side puddle, aud takn to di
vided skirts. Doctors uho have been
consulted sigh and Bay they only wish
tuc rumor would come true. They do
what they tan to push It along. They
prescribe tiding nstilde, and say It Is.
tho only healthful and safe way for
anybody to tide. But tbij tity that
It'R ono of the presctltplons which New
iork women u.iu o tar declined to
take.
And yet theto Is a pcislstent rumor
In tho all' that women huvo been seen
riding nstilde ocn In tho paik. Tho
regular pom emeu have it certain repu-1
tatlnn for blindness, but there ts no
particular reason why it paik polite-!
mnn fahuuld have trouble with his ryes.
nil uujii iu Hiinw u mciu are any
visions cf namzons In. dUlilcd skirts
flitting nlonj; tho bridle paths there
cummer daja. Several polltemea were, I
tlteiefure, approached on tho subject.
"Ilev I seen anny vtiamcn rliiln' I
nulliridc lately? said one. "No I nin't.
They was t,u thiec actresses done It
a few yea is ago, but I ain't never seen
no lady u-doln" It."
At the riding academies the rumor
fared quite, as badly.
"No,1' said ono of the German tiding
masters, "ve aind god no ladles rtdln'
asdrlde In our agademy."
"Say, you ride better than you talk,"
put In another one. "Sits his English
sort of sideways, doesn't ho?" us the
German went off. "No, there's not a
single lady, nor a married one either,
riding astride In our academy. And I
don't think you'll And one In any of
tbo cither academies. They don't want
to hero in New York."
"Do they rldo that way In tho coun
try?" "I don't know. We had ono woman
who wanted to lenrn to ride astride,
She took a few lessons, but never went
nny farther than that."
"They rldo nstrldo In England. Do
you think that If It becomes tho uni
versal stylo over thoro New York
women will follow It?"
"I don't know. I'm not In tha
prophesying business. Women are
sticklers for style. They'd rldo on
their heads If It were the fashion. All 1
know 1b that we haven't seen any signs
of this new fad so far. Wo have a fow
HIHk HX:K,'iVm I IV
ilWlMBft Vr.3 A-Lfc-SI
GUNHRAL. LUDINGTON HERE.
H readier Ocneral M. I. Ludlngton,
Quartermaster llcneral of the Army
was about town this morning accom
panied by Quartermaster Major Rob
Inton. The Quartermaster General ts
Rteatly Impressed with Honolulu nnd
cnnsldeis the city a place of great Im
portance to the army transport ser
vice. Honolulu will loim a part of the
report of the general on his return to
Washington. He leaves In the Grant
for the Philippines win re he will re
main about a month, returning to the
States by way of New Yorl.
The bark Albert sailed for this port
from San Francisco on the 14th In:'..
She has quite a number of passengers,
nmong them being Mrs. Turner, wife
of the first mate.
little girls riding astrldo because the
doctors have ordered It; but no grown
up women."
At the new academy the head master
took the Inquiry very calmly.
"Well," ho said, "wo haven't nny
ladles riding astride, but we have a
good many little girls. Tbo women are
not likely to, rldo astride In the city,
at any rato not for tho present. There
are too many roughs. But they mav
ride that wuy In the country."
"Do they now?"
"I don't know of any that do. Still
Ihey may havo picked It up this winter
In the South.".
"Will theso little girls who are learn
ing to rldo astride be willing to change
to a side-saddle later? Won't they pre
fer tho easier and safer way of riding
nstrldc?"
"Oh, It's just ns comfortable for them
to ride with a side-saddle. Indeed. I'm
told It gives them a better grip of the
horse."
"If that is truo, that riding sideways
Is Just as easy, safe and comfortable,
and gives ana a better grip of the horse,
I suppose you would like to ride that
way yourself?"
"Well well no, I wouldn't. You
sec 1 think there's somebody waiting
for me," and tho master made his cs-i-ape.
"Of course," laughed a bystander,
"you'ro nut going to cntcli'tho academy
people encouraging women to ildo
astride. It k so much insler to rldo
that way that It would cut Into tie
number of lessuns teirlbly. At least
they think it wuuld. I don't helljvo It
myself. 1 think ten time!, as many
women would learn to tide and that It
would bo a good Oilng nil around."
Buffalo Bill offeied to wager tho ro
poller that In ten yiars tiom now
there won't bo one si ie-baddlu In a
thousand, lie sayM tho KngllBh worueti
want to inako It tuc fashion, anil th'.l
vhen it coa.es ta thllisa cquijtliuu. Uu
lat,llsh uct the fashion fur tho woild.
in spite, however, or Col. Co.iv
wager and of the minora which
to bo getting lather thick, tho jcotilu
who rldo bay that ao far tbeio aie no
signs of thu sldfi-eaddlo going to thu
shelf.
It Is worth lemcmberlng, luwevw,
that Just before the bicycle Jumped into
fashionable favor there were plenty ot
seucres who said that fashiouubiK
women would never touch It. It v.'Jt
the same thing with tho short sklit .'or
street wenr.
"It Is a queer thing," said a WQiunti,
"that In certain fashions society fol
lows tho masses. It's ulte ull right.
Society women don't want tj make
themselves conspicuous nnd uxptiw
themselves to unpleasant comment. So
they sit quietly buck and wait until I ho
thing has lost Its novelty und every
body has got on nil tho sarcastic, epi
grammatic gags he can think of and
wants a chanco to say smart things on
tho other sldo. Then tho society woman
adopts tha fail and everything Is lovely.
"Perhaps tno riding astrldo will tti'ii
out that way. As for thcro being any
danger of unpleasant experiences,
that's nonsense. I'va Been wnmn riding
abtrldo In tho Chicago parks and pco
pie scarcely looked twlca at them. And
I must say that the women rodo so well
that they could better atTord to be
looked at than tho women who rodo In
the old-fashioned way."
$g Feels Like
An Auger
This Is ona lypo ol hideous headache. There are miny
oiler klndj. each having Us particular variety of middl
ing tcrtert or dull, stupefying throb. Headachea belon?
to :ho past because Cessler's Magic Headache Wafers are
of the f reicr.t.
It vou smoke lao much, or drink too much,
or eel too
too late, or
uchc from
20 minutes
Mr. Mu Center. Ph. C. It.lwuVee. Wli. L

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1903-06-21/ed-1/?sp=42&q=BOSTON+subway
1
THE MARCH OF IMPROVEMENT IS FAST OBLITERATING MANY OF BOSTONS MOST FAMOUS OLD LANDMARKS
OLD STATIC HOUSE, BOSTON.
To be transformed Into a tunnel station for the subway
BOSTON IMPROVEMENTS.
Historic Landmarks and Crooked
Streets Disappearing.
Boston, June 20.— Within three years the
crooks and turnings and devious wanderings of
Boston's most honored highways and byways
will be nothing more than a memory of the past,
and many of her ancient landmarks will be
wiped out or so altered as to be unrecognizable
to the oldest inhabitant. Slowly and surely the
ancient thoroughfares are being widened,
straightened and bent into the rulerlike lines oC
i rosscut New- York. Philadelphia and Chicago.
Boston is undergoing a transformation below
arid aloft that would cause Benjamin Franklin.
John Hancock, "Warren and Paul Revere *.o rub
their eyes and stare in amazement. Million dol
lar buildings by the dozen, elevated roads, tun
nels and streetcar lines beneath the streets and
under the harbor, swamps and mud Hats filled
for piers and excavated for docks that ac
':;iinodate giant steamers these are the things
they would see.
Along State-st., beneath the spot where the
Boston Massacre occurred, and beneath the his
toric old State House, a tunnel is eating its way
from under the harbor to Scollay Square to con
nect with the present subway by means of
(lights of stairs and elevators, and thence out
side to the busy world. The old Slat- House
itself is to be transformed into a tunnel station
connecting with a subway line also. The re
modelled building will soon be crowded with
people hurrying back and forth, intent on busi
ness, with never a thought of its old associa
tions. Little do they think, as they hurry past
where tunnel workmen are digsing seventy feet
beneath, of what has happened In that quaint
old edifice. On this site the first State House
was built in 1G57. Destroyed by fire in 1711. it
was rebuilt In 1712, and rebuilt again in 1747,
when destroyed a second time. The building
has been in turn Town House, Courthouse. Prov
ince House, State House and City Hall. <>n the
NEW-YORK TRIBUNE ILLUSTRATED SUPPLEMENT.
PAIIK STREET CHUUCR, "RRIMSTONE CORNER," BOSTONT.
It is to make way for a skyscraper.
first floor in the early days was the merchants*
walk, or exchange.
During the Stamp Act excitement the stamped
clearances were burned in front of its doors.
The British troops were quartered within the
building in 17'J.S, and the Boston Massacre oc
curred about fifty feet away on March 1770.
The next day Samuel Adams stood in the coun
cil chamber and made his successful demand
upon the royal representatives fur the immedi
ate removal of the British troops from Boston.
In this same room Generals Clinton, Howe and
Gage held a council of war just before the bat
tle of Bunker Hill. In 17N'J, at the western end
of the State House, Washington reviewed the
great procession in his honor on the occasion of
his last visit to Boston. Here, also, in lSi>s,
William Lloyd Garrison found refuge from a
mob which had broken up an anti-slavery meet
ing, and threatened his life.
The Park-st. station of the present subway
handles I!7,course of its trolley traffic, but the number of
passengers who will pass through the old State
House station will far exceed this number.
The march "f progress does not stop here,
however. Down Washington-st., to connect with
the tunnel and present subway, will be another
subway, this a double one for elevated trains
after they leave tli" surface at the Broadway
extension. It will pass beneath the Old South
Church, the Old Corner Bookstore and other well
known landmarks. Through the tower of the
»lil South Church, which juts out into Washing
ton-st., it is planned to cut an arcade, in the
g< neral scheme of widening and straightening
Washington-st. Surrounding the Old South
Church on three sides, a new $1,000,000 office
building eleven stories high is going up rapidly.
The Old South Church has been called the
'Sanctuary of Freedom." The ground on which
it stands was formerly the site of Governor
John Winthrop's home, where he died in
Itri'.t. The land was afterward owned by Mine.
Mary Norton, wife of the Rev. John Norton,
who gave it in trust "forever, for the erecting of
a h"use for their assembling themselves to
gether publkjuely to worship God." The first
meeting house was a small cedar building, built
IB 16701 where Benjamin Franklin was baptized.
The present structure was built in I. When
the British occupied the town they desecrated
the place by using it as a riding school and cav
alry drill hall. In 187»J the "Old South Preserva
tion Committee" was formed to buy it for a loan
museum, at a cost of $4r,0.000. and saved it from
being torn down.
Further down toward the old North End a
syndicate has bought the old Hancock Tavern,
in Corn Court, and upon its site, with the ad
joining lots.'will build another eleven story office
building. Tenants in the Hancock Tavern have
already received their notice to more.
As long ago as 1(334 Samuel Coles k-pt a tav
ern on this spot, and he had in WMi for his
guests Governor Vane and the Indian Mian

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84020274/1904-05-08/ed-1/?sp=57&q=New+subway+York
0
Biggest Ttunmim!! m tine WrM
Fred'K. Boyd Sfeveimsoini ili2
J! 1 !Jrf aaaHaaH Anr:f I i I U'llPiSL
Ai-wSf aaaaaaHaaaaaaH aaaaaaUattiaCttaaaaH --i&jz&g' .ik vlU
x aaH& B 'aBrafeaaH ;W -J
amHBlH vaa aaar?aK.uaaaBm ,jMR;vr X
Haaaaavy-avaaaaam &UR aYaV&mw
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaas saPMr aaaaaW,
awawawawawawawawawan Sffi" SraaY
aaaaaaaaaaaaaj ir!3LjCaaaaavC
MHBHHHHH Kf
HHh,"'PmS
Alexander President FHnjxL. Hb9R
E. '1 Rapid (BaBfe.K
yK. Transit aHaaVaaLafl
.Pmvoard AaaaaEPaVHIH
aaKiv v LamA MBHBHHH
n..l- ru.w.. xt IBK" JH J Au,;u,t Delmont.
John D. McDonald. I aaaaaaaaaaMtt lH J
-w-i 1 UA. KVB 3 The Financier
i nu vuninicigr I Hp.
3 aaaaaYa' aaaav J
alaawawawaYa
VaYaYaYaYaYaYaYaYay x
A LITTLE more than
four vcars ago John
B. McDonald, a
New York' contractor,
sat in the banking house
of August Belmont on
Nassau street. He had
in his hand a contract
for building the New York
underground railroad on
a bid of S35.ooo.ooo. Pre
vious to this the rapid
transit commissioners
had been uji and down
"The Street searching
for a man strong enough
financially and daring
enough speculatively to
Kick such a colrssal en
terprise. At lest it w.n
a spectacular propositi in
The citv had driven a hard ba-gam.
the multi-million-iires sniffed at it
The Manhattan Elevated and the Metropolitan
Street Railway Company turned it down.
So it was with other financiers.
One after another shook his held.
When the subway was mentioned they suddenly
remembered that it was their busy day.
From all along the line of money kings came the
same answer: "It is putting goxl dollars into a
hole All save one.
"I'll think it-over," said Belmont.
Forty-eight hours 'later lie sent for the con
tractor. "I'll go into it." said the Nassiu street banker.
That is the financial story of the building of the
greatest underground railroad in the world. August
Belmont risked his entire fortune on a business cnture
tliat some of the biggest capitalists of America feared
to undertake.
"How did you hive the nerve to go into it, Bel
mont?" asked a friend the other day.
I think I am a good deal like a" little dog tliat I
used to own while at Harvard." said Belmont. "He
wasn't much on the fight, but if another dog tackled
"William Barclay Parsons, Tlie Engineer
him he would get hold f a hind leg and stick. I liad
faith in this thing and I had faith in McDonald. I got
my leg hold, and I hung on
After a few months more of waiting, the
underground railroad will be complete. Today its
success is assured It is acknowledged to be the
greatest financial undertaking and the most remark
able engineering feat in history It is more than a
I'cal achievement. It is national, yes, international,
in its scojie, for it lias revolutionized the rapid
transit problem of the great cities of the world.
In a nutshell, here is
this vast rapid transit
system
Extending from the
Battery at the southern
extremity of Man
hattan island to Bailey
avenue and 230th street
on the west side in a long
sweep of thirteen and a
half miles of four, three
and two tracks, and forty
eight miles of single
track; from 100th street
and Broadway under Cen
tral park, to the eiist,
under the Harlem river to
Bronx park and iSind
street, a distance of seven
miles, or seventeen and a
half miles of single track.
This is the Manhattan division which the contractor
is about to turn over to the oerating comiuny
To Brooklyn another great system is liemg pushed
rapidly toward completion. It leaves the main line
in Manliattnn at the foot of Whitehall street, near
Battery park, and plunging under the East river,
enters Brooklyn at the fool of Joralemnn street,
running with two and three-track systems to Atlantic
avenue, a distance of two and three-tenths miles.
Thus, spreading out from the heart of the metroji
olis. like a gigantic spider-web. are more than sixty
five miles of single tracks, covering a distance of
twenty-five miles of sjiacc to be traveled by 'trains.
Mere figures arc inadequate to express the extent
of this system. Never in the history of the world lias
there lieen such a subway as this. The oldest tunnel
of which mankind lias knowledge was built three
thousand years .-go by a king of Babvlon It ran
under the Euphrates nvcr. connecting the r-vd
palace with the temple of Bel us It was a sh.. -w-hole
in the ground comvired to this great undertaking
of New York. Compared to it the famous catacombs
of Rome are a series of rabbit burrows. In 1S03
when the Simplon tunnel, which pierced under the
Alps and connected Switzerland with Italy was begun
a JPJMTTan MM 1 111 .t -s--r
aaaaaaaaaaEaaaaaaaaaEaaaaaaaaaaaValaaaa Jaaaaaaaai aaaaaaPaaaaaaaaaaaaaHaW- aaaaaaaaaVa aaair
raVAKaaaTaaaaSaaaV .VtL
slVB BAaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaalalaaaaa
Group of Capitalists, "Whose Combined Rating "Was Estimated at Five Billion Dollars, to Whom Was Accorded the First Trip Through the New
Sub-wax- .Among Those Present Were August Belmont, George Gould. Jacob H. Scruff. Clarence Mac Kay. James Stillman. John D. K.ochefe11er. Jr.,
Andrew Freedman, James Speyer. Valentine Snyder, Perry Ddmont, 'William 11. Moore. Daniel Laroonl, Cornelius Vanderbilt und George Cromwell

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn88085947/1904-10-27/ed-1/?sp=1&q=NEW+OPENED+SUBWAY+YORK
0
NEW YORK SUBWAY IS
OPENED BY M'CLELLAN
NEW YORK, Oct. 27.—The Rapid
Transit railroad, the subway, as It
Is popularly known, nnd the most
colossal undertaking of its kind in
the worlds history, whs formally
opened today with imposing cere
saonies. The exercises took place
under the joint auspices of the Inter
borough company and the board of
aldermen. In City Hull park, where
the great downtown terminal is lo
cated and where the first spadeful
of earth was turned, the principal
ceremonies of the day took place
shortly before noon. The park and
citl hall were lavishly decorated.
Bishop Pottter opened the cere
monies with prayer and was followed
by an address by Alexander E. Orr,
president of the rapid transit com
mission, who turned the subway over
to the city. Mayor McClellan accept
ed the tiust, and then turned the road
over to August Belmont, president of
the Interborough company, who also
made a brief address. Archbishop
Farley closed the ceremonies.
At 1 o'clock the first train was
started over the road, operated by
Mayor McClellan in person. Hands
of music were stationed at all the
principal stops along the route. In
cluded among the passengers on the
first train were the city officials, of
ficials of the Interborough company,
a large party of distinguished engi
neers and other invited guests.
Promptly at midnight tonight the
road will be opened to the general
public. That part of the road that
will be operated for the present In-
It is to tight Jeunnot Bros, that
the Spokane Grocers' association has
been Incorporated "to foster a per
manent social feeling" among the
grocers.
The grocers' trust has been making
an illegal tight In using the boycott.
The members knew this and they
knew also that every member of the
trust was liable personally to the
courts for the acts of the organiza
tion.
In order to relieve the Individual
grocers from the fear of being com
pelled to pay damages in ease any
boycotted firm or grocer instituted
suit the trust has been incorporated.
Of the men who are the Incorpor
ators. C F. Blegler runs a trust gro
cery at |MI Second avenue, ft ft.
Andersons trust grocery is at 301
llogan street; P. Nelson offers gro
ceries at trust prices at 01730 Divis
ion street; John Gilford Son have
trust goods for sale ut 1730 liroad
way; Eliza N. t'ory is the secretary
of the association of trust grocers.
It win be noticed that tho big gro
cers arc not showing up in the of
ficial positions of the trust associa
tion. The "little fellows' have been
forced into those dangerous positions.
They will stand personal responsibil
ity, but the big grocers will put up
the money for the trust fights.
As an Incorporated body the trust
grocers nr* not now Individually re
sponslble for the law-breaking meth
ods of the boycott. This is the rea
son the Spokane Grocers' association
was Incorporated.
The Press believes the greedy oc
topus which Is formed to grind still
harder the workingman and his tam
lly should be checked.
W. W. JACOBS, A PLAT
WRIGHT AND HU-
SECOND YEAR. NO. 295. PBICE: ONR CENT.
dudes the whole of the main line
from City Hall park to the Harlem
river on the upper west side. It is
expected to have the entire west side
line opened to- traffic within a month
or so nnd also the east side branch
to the Bronx.
The great subway opened today
consists of It miles of railroad under
the city's teeming streets. The actual
work of construction has taken Just
four years and the cost has exceeded
150.000,000. When the entire system
is completed it will enable one to
travel from the limits of Brooklyn
to the northernmost end of Manhat
tan entirely underground.
A dazzling array of facts and fig
ures tell the story of the building
of the mammoth underground road.
For instance, more than 8,000,000
cubic yards of dirt and rock were
blasted Hnd dug from the streets of
the crowded city. To tear away the
rock voo.ooo pounds of dynamite were
used. Eleven thousand men were em
ployed In the work and of this num
ber several hundred lost their lives
through accidents, premature ex
plosions, cave-Ins und falling rock.
It Is estimated that the road will
carry 115,000,000 passengers a year.
The fare Is 5 cents. When the ex
tension to Brooklyn, under the East
river, has been completed It is esti
mated that the road will carry 200,-
UOO.OOO passt-nxers year.
Express trains will run through
the subway at the rate of a mile a
minute for the benefit of the long
hauls from the Bronx to the busiest
sections of the city below Fourteenth
Englishmen like to laugh as
heartily as their American brothers
when the Joke Is of their kind, and
Jacobs knows how to provide fun i
that is International. He gained his
knowledge of river life and charac
ter on the wharf ut Wapping, where
he spent his leisure hours as a boy.
Mr. Jacobs Is a Londoner born and
bred, and until the last few years
has stuck pretty closely to a city
life. He was educated at private
schools and only live years ago gave
up his appointment in the savings
l»ank department in the general post
office, which he had held since 1883.
lie is 41 years old. but he looks
such a boy, with his clean-shaven
I
face, mm figure end t¥r£si*j»~' tssrt
old ladles In omnibuses still otter
1 hiss ehooolates as to a youth of la,
Mr. Jacobs confesses that he hates to.
work, be put from I
one ceil
street. Local trains will top at all
of the underground stations, every
half dozen blocks along the route.
The tunnel is ventilated by a system
of electric fans and illuminated the
entire route by In candescent lights.
A trip through the greet tunnel is
all that is necessary to convince one
of its entire security. White enamel'
ed bricks wall up the sides to a
bricked arch overhead. Everything
else is of stone and steel, and heavy
plate glass at the stations to let the
light In from the street overhead. It
would seem impossible for a disaster
to occur where everything Is as new
nnd strong and perfect, apparently,
as It is within the power of man to
contrive. The pneumatic block sys
tem Is pronounced by experts to be
the most wonderful thing of its kind
In the world and it Is calculated to
make collisions Impossible.
The cars have steel bottoms, cop
per sheathed sides, and there is very
little wood in their construction. The
lighting system Is entirely separate
from the power plant that will move
the trains by means of the third rail.
The route of the main line is up
Fourth avenue to Forty-second street,
then up Broadway until One Hundred
and Fourth street Is reached. There
is branches into two sections. The
first continues straight out Broad
way to Kingsbrldge, a distance of
more than 14 miles from Battery
park. The second section runs east

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn87060004/1905-01-19/ed-1/?sp=4&q=BOSTON+Boston+SUBWAY+subway
1
ANOTHER BOSTON SUBWAY
Eat Ilpnlon Tunnel Junt Openti
IllliiM Under Itnrbor
Boston the pioneer city of America
In subway construction now boasts a
subway Maid to be the greatest single
boring yet completed under the enter
of a river or harbor It Is tho EnSt
Boston tiinnl extending from tile
zing UA8T JtOSTON TUNNEL
city proper under the harbor to
Maverick square East Boston It Is
the second subway to be opened In
Boston wns begun In 1000 has cost
3000000 and has Just been turned
over to tint Boston EIu rated Rallwny
company for operation It Id about
one ones twofifth miles In length and
has an exterior diameter of nearly
thirty feet thoilgli the thickness of
the walls bring Its Interior diameter
down to about twentyfour feet
The East Boston tunnel nets to n
depth of more than ninety feet below
tho waters of Boston harbor through
n blue day sediment It Is fov the
use of regulntlpn trolley cars which
come to the surface at the suburban
end of tilt passage nnd continue their
Journeys over tliestrce trucks Kven
trashy the tuba Vlll be connected di
rectly with the present Ruiwny In Ba
tons congested dlflUlct

https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84023296/1906-06-09/ed-1/?sp=1&q=bomb+Bomb+Boston+explosions+FIRE+subway
1
FIRE IN SUBWAY.
Lives Impcrilled in Boslon's
Underground Railway.
Terrlflc Exploslona Caused by 8hort
Clrcultlng of Heavlly Charoea uiec
trlc vyirea Hundreds of Men and
Women Thrown Into Panlc Three
Persons Injured.
Boston A dull, low ronr, llko tho
blast of n chnrge of dynnmlte under
tona of grnnlte, nnd clouda ot black,
Blckenlng smoko belchlng fortli,
threw hundreds of men nnd women
into a panic nnd paralyzed trnfflc ln
the subwny nt the Boylston street
statlon at 5.30 o'clock, Wednesday af-
ternqpn
No one know the trouble. Elevatcd
road employes and offlclals were allke
confused, and fearful of what mlght
come next, fla tho smoko raphlly fllleil
tho stntloim at Boylston and Park
streets, nnd passengers wers rushed
from tlie cars to the surfacc.
Tralnmen nnd statlon pollce at
tempted to call the flrd departmont
and found tho telephones so charged
wlth clectrlclty as to be useless.
Mnny of the women reachlng the
subway by the Boylston street cars
were overcomo by the smoko, falnted,
nnd had to be dragged to the surfnce.
Several becanio hysterlcal and woro
controlled wlth much dimculty, the
danger belng constant of Bomeono
falllng from tho platforms overcome
by tho smoko and becomlng electro
cuted upon the deadly thlrd rall.
Tralnmaster Benjamln wns the flrst
offlclal to reach the Boylston street
statlon and to brlng some sort of or-
der out of tho cliaos. Enterlng the
subway along the llne of the north
bound cars he made hla way some 100
feet to the south of tlie statlon and
found the cause of the trouble.
The feed cables for the thlrd rall,
runnlng between the ralla and en
closed ln four-inch wooden box con
dults, were found grouuded and
throwlng off flashes of electrlclty,
whlch llluminnted the subway for
tnany hundreds of feet. The electrl
clty had jumped to other cables run
nlng parallel, and even charged the
wnlla of the subway. Ten powerful
cables felt the lnftuence of the crosn
nnd were cracklng nnd throwlng off
flames and flashes of llght, threaten
Ing death to any who cnme near.
Tho wooden box condtilt, black and
greasy and very Inflammable, was
burnlng rapldly. A north bound traln
whlch had passed over the spot got
nflro nnd wna inillod bnnk lo Waont
street, hlnzlng flercely underneath.
Tlie terrlfled passengers were hnnied
ntt nt Plpnsnnt Rtreet nnd tlie flro be-
nnivth tho. Kttn"gulshed by'road
employes before serlous damage was
done.
Three persons were hurt, nnd all of
them were on the surface. The nccl
dents whlch caused thelr Injurles were
the dlrect result of the trouble In tbo
subway. The Injured wero all near
the Pleasant street entrance to tho
Biibwny and were hurt by the explo
sions in three mnnholes at tliat polnt.
Tralnmaster Benjamln ordered all
tralns Into statlons, and then the cnr-
rent on the thlrd rall and feed cables
was shut off.
Chlef Mullcn and the flre depart
ment hod been notlfled before tho
power was shut off and entered tho
nubway nt the Boylston street sta
tlon, although there was great danger
for anyone, however famlllar ylth the
subway, to enter ln tlie dense smoke
whlch flllcd every foot of space be
tween the walls.
As Chlef Mullen's men toucbed the
walls thoy felt a shock at once. The
brass nozzle of the chemlcal hose
Ihey carrled became charged, and wlth
electrlclty runnlng up thelr arms the
men hcsltated for a mlnute for orders
from thelr chlef.
rlsk It," shouted Chlef Mull
en, and he dashed Into the smoko
filled subway. Hla men followed close
behlnd, thelr hands on the shoulders
of the men In front. A few darlng
newspaper men brought up the rear.
Half an hour was consumed ln put
llng out the flames whlch had fol
lowed nlong the box condults nearly
300 ynrds.
Both Chlef Mullen and Aaslstant
Chlef Brady termed It one of the
most dangerous flres they were ever
called upon to hnndle, not from lts In
tenslty but for the dangers of electro
cutlon that surrounded them and the
thlckness of the smoke.

https://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn84020358/1897-02-11/ed-1/seq-5/#date1=1756&index=1&rows=20&words=Boston+BOSTON+SUBWAY+subway
1
BOSTON'S FAMOUS SUBWAY
CHIEF EXUlXliKK CAHSOX 3BI.IS
HOW IT IS COXSTIIVC1HD,
Lecture Before Engineers' Club Feature
of the Kuglnoeiiiig Work on the Subway
Subways In Other Cities.
An exceedingly Interesting and valu
able lecture was given last evening In
North Sheffield hall by Howard A. Car
son, member of the American Society
of Civil Engineers and chief engineer
of the famous Boston subway. The
lecture was given, under the auspic&i
of the Engineers' club and was largelj
attended by citizens as well as stu
dents. Professor DuBols Introduced Mr. Car
son, who spoke on "Subways in Bos
ton, London and Elsewhere." The lec
ture was illustrated by stereopticon
views of the Boston subway and also
of some of the European subways
which Mr. Carson has visited.
The lecturer at the commencement
explained why the Boston subway was
built. "The DODulatlon of Boston 130
years ago was less than 22,000; 100 years
ao about 26,000; In 1830, in the remem
brance of many, about 82,000, while to
day the city has about 600,000. The
population of Boston doubles In about
thirty-five years.
"The use o the streets for travel In
creases faster In proportion than the
population of the city. In 1896 167,000,000
persona were carried by the street rail
ways. While the population doubles
only in twenty-flve years, travel on the
street railways doubles In about ten
years.
"The streets are no wider now than
they were one hundred years ago, and
they are not able to do the work they
are needed to do. If streets can't do
the work required of them the natural
thing to do is to build them wider or
make new streets, but the cost is too
great for this, costing perhaps $100 a
foot. If you can't Wld or.broaden the
old streets you must do the way a per
son does when a house la overcrowded
and has not land to build new by add
ing stories to the old. In the case of a
street you have to decide between an
elevatedway or a subway.
"The mere cost of erecting an elevat
ed road is only about one-half or one
third of that of a eubway, but the dam
age which has to be paid to adjacent
property owners makes the cost of the
two systems about the same. As to the
convenience and comfort of the two
methods, different persons are likely to
hold different views."
Mr. Carson then explained an elevat
ed road which Is being constructed in
Germany, where the cars are suspended
from the track Instead of running on
the raila. '
"The Boston subway is being built
under some of the most traveled streets
of the city. . For most of the distance it
is to have two tracks, but at points
there are four tracks where the cars
can run back without naming to the
end of the line. At the northern termi
nus there is an incline where the cars
i can come to the surface. Stations for
passengers are placed at convenient
distances, usually one In about 1,000
feet.
"The retaining walls of the subway
are of granite and concrete, mostly of
concrete. There are two forms of con
struction employed in the roof, one
made of steel and concrete and the oth
er the brick arch. . .
"The subway is about twenty-four
feet in width at the Incline, where there
are two tracks, and about sixteen feet
high. In the middle of the subway is a
drain, the side wa!! of which, are of
brick with open Joints, so that thfe wa
ter can eaeily find its way Into It, and
the top is covered over with flags eas
ily removed if the drain needs inspec
tion or repair.
"At the passenger stations there are
two stairways, each fifteen feet In
width. It was not Intended at first to
use elevators at all, but It may be
thought desirable to adopt them at
some stations later on.
'In the work of construction many
pipes were encountered which had to
be removed or passed under. The work
is being so performed as to cause the
least possible hindrance to travel on
the streets. In the daytime one-third
of the street is occupied for the. plant
and material used for the work, and
the other two-thirds Is left for travel.
At night about two-thirds of the street
is occupied in the work.
'Bridges are built over the excava
tions on a level with the street, so that
one passing over them will hardly no
tice the fact. The work Is done by
what is known as the slice method, by
which ten or a dozen sections are being
excavated at the same time, no two be
ing adjoining.
'There are eight fans placed at ap
propriate Intervals to ventilate the tun
nel, each fan being seven feet in diam
eter. It was feared by some that the
excavations would weaken the founda
tions of some of the high buildings, but
the work has so far advanced now that
there is seen to be no danger."
Mr. Carson olosed his lecture with a
rapid description of subways in Buda
pest, Paris, London and Glasgow, and
also a description of the use of the
shield In tunnelling.

https://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn84020274/1904-05-08/ed-1/seq-58/#date1=1756&index=2&rows=20&words=Boston+Subway
0
SUNDAY MAGAZINE for MAY 8, 1904
fT . .. i WIWm .... -.- i, iQHHttHHHttrrr ,-.. - ' -:-:.: 1
rWtTH vHC MH
V Hit
Vk-l- S.
rr4r.Eiiiii!tisi
Hif
sm;
rBH
irvrja V-r r
sS&SfcP?
.? " 5T --'- -rvPBP
SS5M???!rfS
3ftZLtCCiCTairiiSrJ
?.-? ifTrt J,iir"
KKi-v5I
i-.'r- T ws.&.is-v y
In This Hole the Subway Intersects the
Cellar of a SKyscraper Since Erected
it was accounted the greatest engineering
wonder of the orld Yet if one could add
the famou St. (loth in! tunnel to the
Simplon, and to them the Mount Cenis
tunnel and then splice on the Like
Fucino tunnel for good measure thus
uniting the four longest tunnels on our
planet he -would liarc the length of the
underground railways of Xew York.
Or, let us take the longest tunnels and
subways in America:
Baltimore and Ohio tunnel 7 miles
Hoosac 'tunnel 4 34 miles
Boston subw r '- 2 12 miles
Cascade tunnel 2 12 miles
Bowlder tunnel 2 miles
Ivanhoe tunnel 2 miles
Sarma tunnel 1 mile
Total 21 34 miles
The combined lengths of these seven great tunnels
is a mile short of the total length of the Manhattan
and Brooklyn divisions of the Xew York subway.
The largest single contract in the history of civili
zation was entered into for the purpose of constructing
this wonderful system of transportation. When it is
known that 1.700,22s cubic yards of earth and 021, 1S2
cubic yards of rock have Ix-en excavated, 36S,6o6
cubic yards of rock tunneled, ijo.oSS tons of steel,
ij.Soj tons of cast iron and 1S.510 cubic yards of
bnck used in the work, to say nothing of the hundreds
and hundreds of thousands of cubic yards of water
proofing and concrete and stone anil the 300,000
linear feet of steel tracks and the hundreds of thousands
of tons of other material one realizes that a vast
undertaking lias lecn in progress. But its very vast
ness makes it incomprehensible.
If we took the earth and the rock that came from
this appalling bole in the ground and loaded them into
carts stretched out in a straight line, 'we should have a
procession reaching from Xew York to San Fran
cisco and back again by the way of Xew
Orleans a distance of 7.573 miles.
Che difficulties of the work have lccn
unparalleled. The authorities say that it
is the most remarkable engineering feat
on record Fifteen miles of sewers had to
be taken up and relaid many of them
almost as big as the subway itself. There
were miles and miles of gas mains and
water pijcs and conduits that twined them
selves in and out and crossed and re
crossed the path of the underground rail
way like a labyrinth. There were elevated
railways and surface railways that had to
be undermined, but so bolstered up by arti
ficial construction that the daily transpor
tation and traffic of the great city was not
disturbed. Blocksand blocks of busy Broad
way in the upper part of the city were hol
lowed out like a flute. Tunnels were fear
lessly bored under lower Broadway, reaching
almost to the very foundations of the big
skyscrapers and brushing against the walls
of Trinity church, while above the rumble of
the electric cars and the rattle cf the carts
never ceased. It costs twenty thousand dollars to con
struct an average mile of steam railroad It cost a mil
lion dollars a mile to dig out and blast out this subway.
But despite the cost and despite the mechanical difficul-
vHBHf
Engineers Solving o Sewer Problem
ties the first great part of the work has been finished.
Yet it is only the beginning of the underground
railroad system of Xew York. .Under the supervision
of the rapid transit commissioners three other mam
moth underground projects are lieing carried forward.
One is the tunnel of the Pennsylvania railroad, which
is to extend from Weehawken, Xew Jersey, under
the Hudson river, below- the surface of Manhattan
along 31st, 32nd and 33rd streets, and under the East
river to Long Island City on Long island, a distance
of four and one-fifth miles, and a total length of main
tracks of twenty-two and one-fifth miles.
A few weeks ago a tunnel under the Hudson river
begun as far back as 1S74 connecting Holxjken,
Xew Jersey, with Xew York, was completed by the
LfOinigjesft Tuurainiels ir& ftUae Worlr3
Xew York Rapid Transit 22 45 miles
Metropolitan Underground. I-onilcm 13 miles
Simplon, Switzerland 12 miles
St. Gothard. Switzerland 9 14 miles
Paris Underground - :..S 12 miles
Mont Cents. 'Switzerland .....7 12 miles
Baltimore, B. & O ...7 miles
Arlburg. Austria 6 miles
"Tup-penny Tube." London . 3 34 miles
Hoosac. Massachusetts ".. 4 34 miles
Berlin Underground 4 12 miles
Liverpool and Birkenhead.- 4 12 miles
Boston Subway 2 12 miles
Cascade. Great Northern Railroad 2 12 miles
Xew York Central '. 2 miles
Budapest, Austria 2 miles
Bowlder. Montana 2 miles
Ivanhoe, Colorado 2 miles
Sarnia, Canada 1 mile
Xew York & Jersey Railroad Company. It has a
length of one and three-quarters miles and runs from
the ferry in Hoboken to Eighth avenue and West toth
street in Xew York. By July. 1905, it will be fully sfor a system that is astounding in its possibilities.
Whero Elevated. Surface and Subway
Lines Cross
equipped with electric trains on the same
plan as that adopted by the underground
railroad.
Work has been already legun by the
Hudson & Manhattan Railroad Company
(the members of which are practically the
same men who compose the Xew York &
Jersey Railroad Company) on a tunnel
which is to run under the Hudson river
from Courtlandt and Church streets, Xew
York, to the Pennsylvania, Jersey Central
and the Erie railway stations in Jersey City.
It will also connect with the Xew York sub
way at Dey street and Broadway. It will
have a length of one and one-lialf miles, and
will be equipped with electric trains which will
be running in three vcars. Both these tunnels
to the Xew Jersey shore are to have twin tules
one tor cacti track. 1 lie trains that arc to he
operated through them will connect with the railroads
of X'ew Jersey.
In a few months the underground terminal facilities
of the X'ew York Central & Hudson River railroad
will be completed. Direct connection will be made
with all the outlying towns within a radius of one
hundred miles, to the Grand Union station on 42nd
street, by means of electric trains.
Thus, with all these roads stretching out into the
country in every direction, a new stream of suburban
transportation will Ixs opened.
"In the next ten years I expect to sec Xew York
honeycombed with great tunnel lines," said John B.
McDonald, the subway contractor. ".The tunnels to
Washington heights and Kings Bridge and The Bronx,
the tunnel to Brooklyn, the tunnel from Weehawken
across Manhattan to Long Island City, the tunnel from
Hoboken, and the tunnel from Jersey City are the
merest beginning. I believe tint within a few years
it will be possible to go between any two points in
the greater city by the underground system."
"I have plans forspending one hundred million dollars
in extending rapid transit facilities in
Greater Xew York within the near future."
said William Barclay Parsons, the chief
engineer of the rapid transit railroad
commissioners. "Even this great sum will
not provide for adequate accommodation
for the rapidly increasing transportation
The entire Manhattan elevated system lias,
on extra occasions, carried as many as nine
hundred thousand passengers a day. In
round numlers it will average for a year
two hundred and forty millions. The
underground will carry more than that; but
with all the increase in facilities we shall
fall short of what we ought to do. This
is based on the calculation that Xew York
is increasing in population at the rate of
two hundred thousand a year, and that
every man, woman and child averages four
hundred and fifteen street car trips annually.
According to these figures the city's popula
tion will have increased by one million
in five years, and the additional fares to
be handled bv the transportation com
panies will be four hundred and fifteen
millions annually."
So this subway great work that it is is only
the beginning; but it has opened the wav

https://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn86086481/1902-08-31/ed-1/seq-14/#date1=1756&index=4&rows=20&words=Boston+subway
0
ANSWERED
Mr. Gaston and Mr. Hamlin Tell
How They Stand in Relation to
Subway and Franchise Regu
lations
REPLIES SENT TO
PUBLIC FRANCHISE LEAGUE
Each Takes up the Questions
Propounded and Defines Terse
ly What His Attitude Is To
ward Each Proposition That
League Submitted
In view of the contests in the Legis
lature during the past three years over
subway legislation, and the importance
of franchise questions as issued in the
coming state campaign, the Public
Franchise League of Boston recently
asked each of the candidates for the
Democratic nomination for governor to
define his position in relation to them.
Identical questions were propounded to
both candidates. Replies as given be
low have been received from both Mr.
Hamlin and Mr. Gaston.
The following Is the letter to Mr. Gas
ton:
"Boston. Mass., Aug. 16, 1902.
“William A. Gaston. Esq..
"Dear Sir: —In your letter, yesterday
made public, announcing your candida
cy for the Democratic nomination for
governor of Massachusetts, you say you
"believe that the people are entitled to
a statement of my (your) views on mat
ters which may be at issue in the cam
paign.’’
"Among the important issues in this
year’s state campaign are those of pub
lic franchises, public control of public
service corporations, the prevention of
the improper influencing of legislation
on the part of corporations by the dis
tribution of patronage in the form of
employment at the solicitation of mem
bers of the Legislature, and municipal
and town governments.
"Accordingly in response to your
statement, the Public Franchise League
respectfully invites you to define your
position on the following questions:
“1. Until the passage of the Boston
subway bills it has been customary in
this commonwealth to grant franchises
for the use of streets and public lands
to public service corporations, for the
purpose of supplying public utilities like
gas, electricity, water and transporta- ;
tion. without requiring any compensa
tion to bp paid to towns and munici
palities for the use of such public prop
erty.
“Wp ask. therefore, are you in favor
of following in the future the precedent
of the Boston subway bills and requir
ing equitable compensation for the use
of the public ways by all public ser
vice corporations?
“2. When franchises are granted to
corporations, without requiring pay
ment in money for the use of public
streets and property, with the expecta
tion that compensation \vill be paid in
lower fares, diminished cost of util
ity or improved service, as the case may
be, this end has b?ea defeated in that
almost all great public service corpora
tions in thp country capitalized these
privileges either by an increase of cap
ital stock nr by absorption of the cor
poration into new and greater combi
nations of capital. Thus the public has
been obliged to pay interest on the
value of franchise rights which were a
free gift intended for the benefit of the
people.
“We ask. therefore, are you in favor
of forbidding the capitalization of the
value of public franchises under what
ever guise it is sought to be brought
about?
“3. When public franchises are
granted irrevocable or leased for long
terms to corporations which are creat
ed to administer the public utilities for
the public benefit, these corporations
become independent to a very great
extent of public control. Thus, among
other evils, the public utility or service
tends to become inadequate or exces
sively costly to the user.
"We ask. therefore, whether (a) you
favor making, when feasible, all fran
chises revocable, and (b) whether you
favor short term leases when fran
chises are granted for a term of years.
“4. We call your attention to the fact
that one* of the baneful ways in which
corporations influence legislation is by
distribution of patronage in the form
of employment in the service of the
corporations. Thus the spoils system
has been transferred from the service
of the state and municipality to the
service of the great public service cor
porations.
"We ask, therefore, whether if elect
ed'you would favor prohibiting by law
the appointment to service by public
service corporations, at the solicitation
of members of municipal, town and
state governments, and also the solicit
ing of such employment by members of
such governments.
“5. One of the most efficient ways of
retaining a check by the people upon
their representatives in the Legisla
ture and restraining the power of the
corporations is through the referendum.
This is only the retention of the prin
ciple of town government.
"We ask. therefore, whether you are
in favor of the referendum in important
measures that grant valuable rights to
. I
Spencer Trask & Co*
Members New York Stock Exchange
BANKERS.
27 a 29 Pine St., New York.
INSURANCE
STATE MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY
OF WORCESTER
Insurance tn force Jan. 1,1902.487.424,149.00
Assets Jan. 1, 1902 19.553.009.71
Liabilities Jan 1. ISO 2 17,582.954.49
Surplus Jan. 1. 1902 2.021.552.22
Telephone 655-3
WORCESTER MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, No. 377 Main Street, insures
Dwellings. Barns. Furniture, etc. Procure
policy direct or ask your j^surau'.e agent or
broker for a "Worcester" policy.
FIRE INSURANCE written on furniture
dwellings, stocks and buildings. James
H. Howland. 717 State Mutual Building.
Telephone 295-5.
individuals or corporations specially
when such grants affect local inter
ests. Very respectfully,
"PUBLIC FRANCHISE LEAGUE,
(Signed) "Edward R. Warren.
"Chairman Executive Committee.
(Signed) "Morton Prince.
"Secretary.’’

https://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83045396/1913-04-06/ed-1/seq-51/#date1=1756&index=7&rows=20&words=Boston+subway+subways
0
W THE SALT LAK15 TltiBUNlO, SUNJJAr MOJ&S L Of, APJAIL 6, 1913, w
htfic Experiments fVMWl MmWMW II
. temperature the I
4 i- 37 JL fpf? The Air Taken in Mid-Ocean Con- The Near Presence of Factories Air Taken at Broadway and For- Even New York Subway Air, fgi
& 'IfnnlttHflt faCtOrS pSt SnH tL pIJ1 Laine& .Mo,re O'S0 and Lesa Car- Produced No Appreciable Contami- ty-tecond Street, New York, Showed Taken in the Rush Hours, Showed ifj!
1 IJlipUS lU1- JL UtW a oSvOn bon Dioxide Than Any Other Air, nation Because of the Rapid DifFu- Only One-tenth of One Per Cent Leas No Decrease of Oxygen That Would jg'
It ' m yn nil Sxf v0o fe C??4 but Stm Not Sufficient to Hare an sivo Power of the Air. Oxygen Than Ocean Air. Cause Illness by Itself Alone. ffift,
. More Oxygen Than N. Y. Subway Air Important Effect on Life. -Si i
rjg, ordinary conceptions or the bud
A jjg of city air and the goodness
J of seashore and mountain air Lave
jjjn completely upset by science. A
x-j0&shy interesting series of experi
ments on the composition of air just com
;i&d at the Nutrition laboratory of the
&rnsgie Institution in Boston proves tills.
Wfat ma&7 J 11 11118 DQen helloved
lit even a slight change in altitude made
t pt deal of difference in the air we
feflie, and there are few people who
wnot supposed that the air in a crowd
'ii'dtr jimn and on the peak of a moun
would bo widely different, the latter
'jjng vastly more of the llfe-glvlne
Jjjgen iian the former. But an extended
litigation by the scientists of the Car
I jigie Institution shows that there Is no
MWt amount of difference between the
1'jfoporllon of oxygen and nitrogen In sam
I jfes of air collected on the Atlantic Ocean,
Kjotha top of Pike's Peak, in the crowded
I; (treete of congested Boston and in the
'Spleasant New York City Bubway.
I. Air in the streets of a crowded city
Bless for some occasional Teason there la
rfciroeljr any alr-ourrent shows only the
JEjMest perceptible difference In oxygen
Jldo from that of the- ocean or of the
Boualain, In rooms, of course, and In
doeed passages such as the subways,
fee is a slightly, a very slightly larger
'dunge. During the "rush" hour of a New
Jerk City subway, the air (outside the car,
rfcourBB), shows a fall of three-tenths of
Lbs per cent in oxygen and a rise of al
pittt exactly the same amount of poison
ftt carbon dioxide. This, so far bb health
i considered, Is practically negligible,
f The air on Pike's Peak contained only
ktefrfortieth of one per cent more oxygen
ifljn the subway,
i
t The experiments at the laboratory were
fkrrled out by Director Francis G. Bene
ijlcl and his assistants. The work in
' I The main study of the comparative
OTgen content of uncontaminated out
lioor air under all conditions as to wind
tlilrecllon and strength, temperature, cloud
formation, barometer and weather, includ
es rain, enow, fog and mist.
2. An examination of samples of air
collected on the North Atlantic Ooean be-
treen Montreal and Liverpool and between
jflsaoa and Boston.
3. Anaylses of air from the top of
'"Pitta Peat,
'J L Analyses of air taken in the crowded
itfreela of Boston.
6. Analyses of air taken in the Boston
Cua New York subways,
ae moEt numerous analyses wero
?5?JL BamPle of air taken near the
f.H Laboratory in Boston. The fao
W aJBtrlot lay on one side of the labora
liv a PDWerhouse on another side,
1.W0 feet away, in order to make nllow
Pfcvf! J?.r tileae factors samples were
fcptr wind in all directions-.
Tlie results showed an astonishingly
small variation In the deterioration of tho
air by carbon dioxide. With the wind blow
ing from the country the air contained
20.920 per cent oxygen, and 0.029 per cent
carbon dioxide. "With the wind from tho
factory district It was 20.910 per cen(
oxygen aud 0.030 per cent carbon dioxide,
The results of analyses of air taken
near the laboratory showed no material
fluctuation In oxygen percentage during
a period extending from April 15, 1911, to
January 80, 1912. This constancy was
maintained in spite of all possible altera
tions in weather conditions, changes in
barometer, thermometer, humidity and
wind direction and strength. The experi
ments wore made before, during and after
the vegetative season.
The average result of 232 analyses
showed 0.031 per cent of carbon dioxide
and 20.938 per cent of oxygen. The analy
aes of air oollocted over the ocean at two
different times of the year and on tho top
of Pike's Peak gave essentially similar
results.
The investigators reacbed this very
Important conclusion from tho air around
the laboratory:
"SVhtle the combustion of fuel and the
vital processes of men and animals result
In a looal increase In oarbon dioxide, and
decrease in oxygen on tho one hand and
vegetable growth Tosults In a decrease in
carbon dioxide and increase In oxygen on
the other, the extraordinary rapidity with
which tho local variations hi the compo
sition of the air are equalized hvaecentu
ated by the observations on street air,
which show but the slightest trace of an
oxygen deficit in the most crowded cen
tres."
Five samples of air wore gathered, all
the way across the Atlantlo Ocean from I
Montreal to Liverpool. Tho results showed
an average of 20.936 per cent oxygen and
0.018 per cent carbon dioxide.
Tho oxygon oontent In this case Is re
markably high and the carbon dioxide
content correspondingly low. In one sam
ple thore was only 0.008 of oarbon dioxide
in the air.
Fifteen samples of air from the top a!
Pike's Peak wero analyzed. They showed
that there was less oxygen In tho air than
at sea and more carbon dioxide, but the
differences were not sufficient to have an
important effect on life. The explanation
of the effoctB of sea and mountain air on
persons must bo sought elsewhere than in
the composition of the air.
The Pike's Peak air showed an average
of 20.927 per cent oxygen and 0.029 car
bon dioxide.
Two samples of air were taken from
the Boston subway at the Park street sta
tion, The samples wore taken immediate
ly after the rush hours were ended and
when the oxygen content of the air in the
subway might he expected to be at a mini
mum. , ,,
Tho result showed an extraordinarily
fe$uV j00&; rW0$fr
rs- i k
slight decrease in oxygen ana lucrease in
carbon dioxide. A fall of approximately
0.03 per cent In oxygon was accompanied
by a rlso of 0.032 per cent in tho carbon
dioxide. Tho proportions of tho two gases
were:
ipptfi ymlmm
The Man on the Left Taking tho Mountain Fresh
Air Cure Is Benefited Chiefly by the Effects of tho
Cold, Wind and Sunshine on His Body and Not by
the Air. He Could Obtain the Same Benefits by
Climbing Up the Fire-Escapes of the New York
Tenement nouse on the Right.
First sample, carbon dioxide, 0.06-1 per
court; oxygen, 20.903 per cent.
Second sample, carbon dioxide. 0.0G5
per cent; oxygon, 20.897 per cent
It should bo remembered that tho aver
age composition of the air near tho labora
tory was carbon dioxide, 0.031; oxygen,
20.952 per cent.
Tho investigators wore surprised to
find ho circulation of air In the subway
so good and the diffusive power of the air
bo extended that the Inoreaso In the
amount of poisonous gas was almost
negligible.
Two specimens of air were
then obtained from the subway
In New York. The results dif
fered in nowlBo from those
found in the Boston subway, and
showed an Increase 'In carbon
dioxide and .decrease In oxygen
much less than ono would have
expected. The results in this
case were as follows:
First sample, taken at Grand
Central subway station, carbon
dioxide, 0.061 per cent.; oxygen,
20.000 per cent.
Second sample, taken between
One Hundred and Tenth and
Ninety-Blxth streets, carbon diox
ide, 0.071 per cent; oxygen,
20.087 per cent
This appears to Indicate that
the air is somewhat worse above
Ninety-sixth street than at the
Grand Central station, but the
difference is not very serious.
The Investigators state that
their experiments have a par
ticular value aa showing that a
decrease In oxygen 13 regularly
accompanied by an approximate
increase In carbon dioxide.
"While the measurement of
carbon dioxide has been taken aa
an index of good or bad ventila
tion, the fact that the proportion
of oxygen 1b actually lowered by
an increase in the carbon dioxide
hnp never been before demon
strated," any these scientists.
"As a result of this 6tudj', how
ever, Wcnowlng both the constancy
of oxygen In outdoor air aud the
sources of carbon dioxide produc
tion, and knowing also that with
the carbon dloxldo production
there must likewise be an oxygen
consumption, wo can safely stato
that for every one-hundredth per
cent, of increase in carbou diox
ide there will be approximately
one-hundredth por cent decrease
in oxygen."
Air collected in Washington
street, between Summer and Avon
streets, the most crowded part
of Boston, showed 20.030 of oxy
gen and 0.031 of carbon dioxide.
Information gathered from other scien
tists showed ttiat tho air was slightly
richer In oxygen near the poleB than at
tho equntor. The ordinary air on the
earth's surface contains approximately
four-fifths nitrogon and one-flfth oxygon.
The rarer gases, such as argon and kryp
ton, are disregarded in this estimate, be
cause thero Is so littlo of them.
As oxygen is heavier than nitrogen, it
is believed that there is a deficiency of
oxygen at great heights. This is supported
by the fact that tho air during several cold
waves shows a deficiency of oxygen. These
waves are supposed to bo caused by the
descent of the air from great elevations.
The apparatus used was invented by Dr. l
Klas Spnden, of Stockholm, and an lm- jffiftf
proved form of it was specially con- ',fvt
etructed for this laboratory, in this ap- . if5
paratus potassium pyrogallato is used 'um
to absorb the oxygen, and potassium hy- .
droxlde to absorb the carbon dioxide. After ft Jt
'the carbon dioxlile is absorbed tho con- jj i
trnction in volume shows the proportion ImJ
of that substance in the air, then the - C ft
oxygen is absorbed and the further con- $ S
traction in volume is measured and shows ft It
the amount of that substance in the air. .j ft
One Important lesson taught by the ex- f.
perlmonts was the extraordinary rapidity L U
with which -the air diffuses Itself in the 91
neighborhood of factories which pour out ,"' 1
all day long clouds of .poisonous vapors. j;
The comparative density of the Bmoke and y
air being different, violent air-currents are 'fffl
set up about the mouth of the chimney and
then rapidly scatter the fumes and render J'kEi
them as harmless as possible. It is almost j4tc
impossible under ordinary weather condi- 4
tlona to find any appreciable change In ''hN
the air content at a distance of half a mile 'i,
from these centres of harmfulness. " '-'.Wi
When It is realized that oxygen Is the ' ".iSj
most important factor In human life, it is
a matter for extreme gratification to find fj
that bo little danger accrues from over- ft
crowding In tho citlos. It is made evident ' "fc'ff
that the ill conditions of city slums are C) M
not due so much to the bad air in the ' S flj
streets, but to tho actual ventilation of the Y'W
homes, to the lack of sunlight, and to food '$31
which lacks the right powers of nourish- h
ment These are matters that tenement WOfti
laws can reach, and Nature will take care "H'W
of tho rest. Not only is air a "good mixer," I'i't" "
but its adaptability ensures this side of the Hi' ft1
well-being of man, all over the globe, and ":;U )-st)
even the crowded city quarter receives the Vs' Aji
benefit.
It Is known that the amounts of carbon $ -'If
dioxldo shown by these experiments to b '"ST
present in tho air of the most crowded ll" jpl
city streets and even In the subways are 1
not sufficient to bo injurious to human V H
life. -; "( if:
To what then are we to attribute the V M
feeble health we find in city dwellers as ',v,ij
compared with those who live In the coun- '!T'" s
try and are equally well fed? How are we
to explain the great benefits that are Bhown
when a person goes from tho city to the T J
seashore or tho mountains?
The explanation that tho city dweller's ffiiff
trouble is due lo working In a sunless, '
overheated, evenly wanned and windless ' fh,
building. If ho wero continuously exposed ','-vJ.
to the city air ho would bo almost as well - ,iH '"-
as at tho mountains or the seashore. ,V
In Illustration of this it is pointed out IVi
that policemen and others who lead an
open air life in the citlos are fully as ro- 'i'jfTj
bust as any class of country men. fX J,!
Theso facts are encouraging to the city ' m I
worker who suffers from tuberculosis-, ' K'll
anaemia or any of tho diseases associated ? o
with city life and sedentary occupation. III
They appear to prove that he can obtain ' j(
relief if he can get enough open air In ,r$ i
the city and that thero is no need for f
him to abandon his livelihood and face i t
starvation by going away to some diHtant I y
part of tho world in order to get fresh air. '.!'L?j J. ,
The roofs of our most crowded tene- frf; '
ment houses should furnish a health re- ;L'!
soi't practically as beneficial aB the f'foii1
Adlrondncks or the ueashore. J i

https://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83007465/1906-08-11/ed-1/seq-7/#date1=1756&index=11&rows=20&words=Boston+Subway
0
In this house the poet, wrote
most ol his gems, among them,"
"The Children's Hour." In this
poem occur these lines:
"Fiona my study I seo in the lamplight
Descending the brond hull stair
<lrave Alice and laughing Allegro
And Edith with golden hair."
"Crave Alice, still unmarried,
owns and occupies tho house and
on either side of her now live,
Allegra, now Mrs Dana and
Edith, now Mrs. Thorpe.
The Tonmine Hotel, Public
Library, Trinity, the church ol
Phillips Brooks, the Art Museum
and Boston Conservatory of Music
aro some of the fine public
uildings of Boston. Boston's
Subway cars honey comb the
city. Surface and elevated cars
are also in evidence. Boston is
' not the rampant negro loving,
South hating hot bed L exn?rtn#i
to find it. The people are more
like Southern people than New
Yorkers or PhiladelnhianR. The
streets are narrow and crooked
but full of people hurrying here
and there and everywhere. Bit'
I find, Mr Editor, I must hold up
else everything else will i>?
, - I
crowded out of this issue of your
paper. To see Boston aright one
must go there and <ho trip will
fully repay any ol your readers.
It. E. Wylie.